# kuhbandner_revisited
Revisiting the fallacious claim that sinking positivity rates mean sinking infection rates made by Kuhbandner (2020), The Scenario of a Pandemic Spread of the Coronavirus SARS-CoV-2 is Based on a Statistical Fallacy 

I recently got confronted with an "older" publication ("older" for COVID-19 standards) from the psychologist Christof Kuhbandner who claimed that the exponential growth of COVID-19 cases in early March in Italy and other countries was just due to increased testing. I deemed this claim already thoroughly debunked so I was a astonished - to put it mildly - that I got confronted with the publication in an academic context. I decided to do a quick-and-dirty reanalysis of Kuhbandner's main claims to show why his reasoning is both theoretically and empirically wrong. 

Unfortunately, Kuhbandner didn't specify anywhere in the paper how exactly he calculated the "true number of new infections" in figure 3 on which his core claims rest. Hence, I had to turn to the data he used and "reverse engineer" his graphs. 

As it turns out, what Kuhbandner proposes as "control" is nothing more than dividing the total number of newly detected cases by the total number of tests, resulting in a percentage of positive tests. So far, so simple. What he does with this is deeply problematic, however: He sets week 10 as the starting point and divides the percentage of positive tests in weeks 11 to 14 by the percentage of positive tests in week 10. He then does the same with the absolute number of positive tests (i.e. dividing the absolute number of positive tests in weeks 11 to 14 by the absolute number of positive tests in week 10). He then declares the difference between these two relative measures of growth to be the "bias" due to the increased testing - a conclusion that is wrong because it is neither empirically substantiated given the data he provided nor theoretically sound (see exhaustive explanation below).

In short, the premises of his bold claim that "in reality the increase in new infections has been only relatively small, and the umber of new infections has relatively quickly started to decrease", therefore making the epidemiological predictions a "fallacy-prone horror scenario" (his words, not mine) does not follow from the analysis her provides and is statistically unfounded.
